Find opportunities, right?
There are loads of opportunities
available to you to do testing and
research that could just pass you by and
you could easily miss if
you're not paying attention.
Use every tiny moment in a project
to cram in some usability testing or
user research, cuz you really
can get a lot in there, right?
So I do a lot of tests,
a lot of people write when they think
of usability testing,
they kinda save up their testing, right?
Yeah, we need to test that,
when we're a bit further on in the bill,
we need to test that,
we need to test that.
And they end up with a whole load
of things that they wanna test,
which obviously is gonna
take a lot of time, right?
What I do is lots and little bits of
testing that I kinda sneak in, right?
Somebody asks a question,
let's do a test for that.
So most of the tests I do take
less than an hour, right?
Most of them take less
than 30 minutes to set up,
get results back in another half an hour,
I carry on with my work.
That is literally what I do, most of the
time I do things like first-click test,
5- second test, eye-tracking simulation,
which doesn't take any
time at all that one.
And there's so
many other opportunities just to
do quick lightning testing in a situation.
And focus on fast results, right?
There are a lot of services out there that
will get you results back in a couple of
hours, literally, right?
For example, Pollfish, I use Pollfish for
surveying all the time.
And basically, I can write a survey and
I can pay a very small amount of money.
I think it's about $1 per person
that would complete the survey,
presuming it's not a really long survey.
And I will get results back
in under an hour, okay?
And to be quite frank, some of the time
I pay that out of my own pocket.
Because, and
paying a tenner to get ten users opinions,
rather than sitting in a meeting for
an hour and a half arguing about it,
is worth that tenner to me,
I mean, so fast results.
And then I also use those
natural breaks in projects,
they're always brakes in project.
Someone hasn't delivered
the content on time,
someone hasn't done whatever
they're supposed to have done.
There are always opportunities to sneak
in a little bit of testing, right?
And also you can manufacture excuses,
I do this all the time as well, right?
So let's say, you've been asked
to prepare a presentation.
Well, wouldn't this presentation be
a lot better with a little bit of user
research in it?
So I've been given permission
to do the presentation.
So I could do the presentation, okay,
well, let's do a bit user research
to shove in my presentation,
I've manufactured an excuse.
Also people are always asking questions,
right?
So somebody will ask you a question, you
go, yeah, I don't know the answer to that.
Give me an hour, and
I'll go away and find out.
And I'm not gonna do bit user research,
user testing in an hour and
I can come back to them.
And then options as well,
so sit in a meeting and
the minute two stakeholders disagree
which is inevitable normally happens
within five minutes of being in
most meetings in my experience.
So they disagree with so and say, let's
not get bogged down in that right now.
Give me a give me a few hours I'll go away
and testing come back to you, go, and
everybody loves it, right?
Because when two stakeholders
start arguing in the meeting,
everybody goes, right?
That's gonna make the meeting longer.
If you cut in with a, say,
I can resolve this offline,
let's move on to the next agenda point,
everybody jumps on it, right?
So it's a great opportunity
to getting a bit of testing.
At this point, I wanna give you
a little bit of a warning, and
I've kind of touched on it already, but
I wanna emphasize it again, which is,
this can't cost anything, right?
This can't cost any money
that people are aware of.
So if there is a cost involved,
hide it, right?
Hide it in any way you can.
If you're, say, somebody,
an external person working with clients,
just quote another hour or
two hours on a project to give yourself
a bit of space for this kinda thing.
Don't put it in as a line item on your
proposal, the minute you put it in a line
item in your proposal,
people will take it out, right?
It's like project management, nobody ever
wants to pay for project management.
So just hide the cost away, if,
for example, you work in house,
maybe you could put that on the company
credit card cuz it's only a tenner, right?
Rather than going through procurement
to get a big platform approved,
can you imagine, right?
So there are lots of ways
of kinda hiding the cost.
So there you go,
that's a bit of introduction, but
I'm gonna come back to this sentence
one more time cuz it is so important.
Doing something is better
than doing nothing.
So if you can't do all of this stuff,
don't worry, it's okay.